let's talk about zettocastin this is the
efficient note-taking system that is
going to help any knowledge worker out
there leverage what they already know
and learn new information and be able to
see the connection between the two
hi everyone it's vicki welcome back to
my channel if you're new here i talk
about mental models and frameworks for
clear thinking and clear communications
so let's go into what is zettocastin how
do we use it and what benefits you'll
get out of this first zettocastin means
slip box in german zeddle is slip which
is usually referring to a slip of paper
an index card and caster means crate
which is like a box that you put the
index cards in and nicholas lumen a
german sociologist used this unique
note-taking system in order to track all
his research and to be able to produce
70 books and hundreds of articles in
just 30 plus years that's an average of
more than two books a year as well as
all the academic articles so how does he
do this it's with the zettacasta method
and the zettocastin method is very
simple all you need are three things you
need zettle which is the pieces of paper
you need casting which is the box or the
crate and then you just need a pen of
course this is the analog version of
zettocastin i'll share with you the
digital version of it as well but let's
start from the basics of how lumen did
it there are three types of zettle three
types of notes they are fleeting notes
literature notes and permanent notes
first fleeting notes these are the
thoughts that come through our head as
we go on our daily lives whether it's
shower thoughts thoughts that you have
when you're taking a long walk when
you're talking to friends that all of a
sudden you have an epiphany these are
thoughts that disappear very quickly so
we must capture them first in notes
the second type of notes are literature
notes and this is what we write down
when we are consuming content whether
it's reading a book an article listening
to a podcast watching a youtube video
watching the movie listening to songs
doesn't matter what it is when you're
consuming content you want to write down
literature notes and these capture first
one atomic idea each so it has to be
brief no more than three to five
sentences
then it also has to be redescribed in
your own words so that you internalize
what is being said
then three you also want to be able to
note down the references so you know
exactly where it came from and you can
always go back to reference it so now we
have fleeting notes from our day we have
literature notes from when we consume
content and when we are learning then
the third type of notes are permanent
notes we create permanent notes by
reviewing what we've written in our
fleeting notes and in our literature
notes so the input is the literature
notes and the fleeting thoughts that
you've had and the output is the
permanent note and as researcher sonka
aarons says the productivity of a
knowledge worker should be tracked by
how many permanent notes you produce a
day and the rules for writing a
permanent note is that one one atomic
idea per node to express the idea
clearly assuming the reader does not
have context three connect them with the
other notes in your system the rationale
behind these rules are simple first you
want one idea per note because these are
building blocks each node is a building
block where you can rearrange and
connect with new ideas old ideas things
that seem seemingly or not connected and
so you want to be able to remove
complexity and be able to rearrange
these ideas then you want to assume that
the reader doesn't have in context and
this is because
you are trying to make the system future
proof i'm sure this has happened to so
many of us where in the moment we jot
something down thinking i know exactly
what i'm saying and the next day you go
back to this note and you have no idea
what you wrote
so to avoid that and to be able to
articulate your ideas properly we want
to make sure that it is expressed
clearly without needing a lot of context
so that not only our current self can
use this future self can use this as
well and then we want to connect them
within the system and this is really
where the crux
of the zettacast method comes in the
connections is what makes your knowledge
usable
i'm sure most of us have this experience
in school where we have all these
isolated ideas that we've memorized but
we don't know how to use them we don't
know how to piece them together what is
the bigger picture here and so the
zettocastin method it really is to help
you think about the big picture and to
see the interconnections between
different ideas and how they may relate
to each other which brings us to the
next point of how to set up the boxes
the casting of the zerkasten the way
that lumen set this up was using only
two boxes two castings the first one is
reference which
had all of his literature notes
categorized by a unique id and the other
box is ideas which stored all the
permanent notes that was based on the
literature notes as well as fleeting
notes now the fleeting notes weren't
actually categorized instead what he
would do is review it on a regular basis
with the literature notes and then if
appropriate he would elevate it to a
permanent note the most important aspect
of zerkasten is that it is not a top
top-down organizing system so what i
mean by that is that we don't create
folders named you know psychology
sociology math science and then we try
to slot our notes into the categories
we're not trying to
force our ideas into a folder instead
it's a bottom up approach where we have
all the notes and we keep them there and
over time we try to see what comes out
of these notes
elevating our original ideas into
permanent notes which dictate what topic
they are
what the ideas are about this way you
can have a more a multi-disciplinary
approach you can see connections
intersections between ideas without
abstractly limiting yourself by putting
things into folders i'm a huge proponent
of intersectional thinking this idea
that the connection between ideas the
intersection is where creativity happens
it's where innovation happens it's where
we realize how the world actually works
and that's why xerocasting for me is a
really important system now i want to
caveat by saying that the way that
lumens set up his zettacastin might not
make sense to you per se depending on
how you think you might need to tweak
things a little bit for example with the
boxes some people actually prefer to
just have one box put all the ideas in
it fleeting notes literature notes
permanent notes all into one place and
because they've digitized it it is
easier for them to go in and search for
things for others it might be
chronological that they think in time so
they think okay last week i had this
idea and i think it connects to my idea
now and so instead they would organize
things by time
or if you're a spatial thinker i am one
of those i need to think about things in
okay this is the fleeting note box this
is the literature box and this is my
ideas box and to be able to know which
idea belongs where and i know exactly
how to retrieve them and how to make
connect them together so there's a lot
of flexibility in lumen system because
it is so simple if you're interested i
walk through my setup of zerocastin in
obsidian i actually write a lot of my
notes by hand so i'll also show you how
you can digitize your notes so you can
still have everything in one place and
also how to sync it between different
devices because as i've talked about
fleeting notes are the ones that you
need to capture immediately and
sometimes you know all you have is your
phone but you do most of your
note-taking in your computer so how do
you sync things between devices i'll
cover all of that in this video here let
me know in the comments if you're
currently using xerocuston if you're
getting into it now if you're still on
the fence
because
ever since i started this my creativity
has increased my productivity has
increased it's so much easier for me to
write my newsletter on intersectional
thinking so much easier to produce
youtube content i have a huge list of
things i want to write about talk about
and the best part is that you can start
anywhere and over time you have that
satisfaction of seeing ideas emerge
especially if you're using obsidian like
i am in the graph it will visually show
you what the connections are and that is
so powerful not something that my measly
mind can come up with by itself so if
you're not building a second brand you
should really consider it and with that
if you found this video helpful please
give it a thumbs up subscribe if you
haven't already i'll talk about more of
how to create your personal knowledge
management system in future videos so
stay tuned for that and i'll see you in
the next video bye